United States (Nintendo GameCube)
Prologue
The English story prologues found in the United States' manuals:

Team Sonic
This tenacious trio of Sonic, Tails and Knuckles combines exhilarating high-speed action with medium difficulty playability.
Tails and Knuckles finally catch up with Sonic as he tours around the globe, and pass him a letter from his arch-nemesis Dr. Eggman threatening another outrageous revenge scheme. This time, the deranged scientist announces that he has finally completed his ultimate weapon, and in a matter of 3 days, he will be ready to bring the world to its knees!
Unlike Tails, disturbed by the message and unsure what will happen, Knuckles relaxes confident there's nothing to worry about. Sonic, however, shows a brief flicker of a smile and takes off again into the distance. With that familiar grin of confidence, Sonic says he wouldn't miss this party for the world! And this is how the three reunite for their greatest adventure to put an end to Dr. Eggman's wicked ploy.
Team Dark
A villainous team of Shadow, Rouge and Omega. Skill and concentration is required to endure heavy battle.
Treasure hunter Rouge, who flies all over the world in search of precious jewels, one day hears that Dr. Eggman is accumulating a massive treasure collection. She immediately heads for Dr. Eggman’s headquarters to liberate these riches, but discovers the base abandoned with all the valuables gone.
However, she comes across a stasis capsule that to her surprise houses the figure of Shadow. Far from being deceased as everybody thought, he was indeed very much alive, but unconscious. In order to release Shadow from the capsule, Rouge switches on the facility's power, unintentionally reactivating the final E-Series robot Omega. Shadow wakes to find his memory gone, unable to recall why or how he went into stasis.
Omega, on the other hand, was rather upset about Dr. Eggman shutting him down. Mistaking Shadow for one of Eggman’s robots, he immediately starts to attack him.
Rouge steps in to break up the fighting, and reminding them both that their enemy is Eggman, the three shook hands and the team was formed.
“Yeah baby!" announces Rouge. "That makes us a team! Let’s go find Eggman!”
Team Rose
A delightful trio of Amy, Cream and Big. Shorter missions are suitable for younger players.
Amy, crazily in love with Sonic as always, is concerned that she hasn't had any contact for over a month. Making little progress on his trail, she is about to give up hope when she catches sight of Sonic's picture in a newspaper.
In her excitement, Amy runs straight to the publishers to ask where the picture was taken, and on her arrival, she meets a huge familiar looking cat called Big and a cute rabbit named Cream. A quick exchange of stories reveals that Big is looking for his best friend Froggy, and Cream is looking for her friend Chao's twin Chocola, both of whom had appeared in the picture with Sonic. From this, they decide to continue their search together.
“You can't run forever Sonic! Mark my words we WILL be married!!”
Team Chaotix
This devious team of crack detectives is made up of Espio, Vector and Charmy. Each Mission they undertake lands them in unexpected situations, which leads to some very unusual and sometimes dubious adventures.
The Chaotix Detective Agency is always at your service if the price is right. Lately however, things have been quiet with very little work available.
One lazy day, a mysterious package is delivered to Chaotix, and inside they find a transceiver which mysteriously promises a handsome payment if Chaotix will take on a case. Charmy is thrilled by the offer, but Espio remains sceptical due to the strange nature of the communication. Boss Vector, with dollar signs in his eyes, wastes no time in gathering his troop together to take hasty advantage of the opportunity.
“You know our policy! We never turn down work that pays!”